docs(tutorial): serverless terraform MTA-2120 (#773)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/manage-instances-with-terraform-and-functions/index.mdx

---
meta:
  title: Deploy and manage Instances with Terraform and Functions
  description: Discover how to deploy and manage your Scaleway Instances using Terraform, functions and python
content:
  h1:  Deploy and manage Instances with Terraform and Functions
  paragraph: Discover how to deploy and manage your Scaleway Instances using Terraform, functions and python
tags: serverless functions instances python terraform
categories:
  - compute
  - serverless
---

> HashiCorp Terraform is an open-source software tool to deploy Infrastructure as Code (IaC). It allows you to automate the lifecycle of your Instances by using declarative configuration files. In this tutorial you will discover an example of Instance automation using Python and Terraform (Automatically shut down / start Instances

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HashiCorp Terraform is an open-source software tool to deploy Infrastructure as Code (IaC). It allows you to automate the lifecycle of your Instances by using declarative configuration files. In this tutorial you will discover an example of Instance automation using Python and Terraform (automatically shut down / start Instances
```

).

<Message type="requirement">

  - You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com)
  - You have [generated an API key](/console/my-project/how-to/generate-api-key/)
  - You have [Python](https://www.python.org/) installed on your machine
  - You have [Terraform](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/scaleway/scaleway/latest/docs) installed on your machine

</Message>

## Context

> This tutorial will simulate a project with a production environment running all the time and a development environment that will be switched off on weekends to save costs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial will simulate a project with a production environment running all the time and a development environment that will be switched off on weekends to reduce costs.
```

## Initialize a Terraform project

1. Create a new folder, called `Terraform`, to store your configuration. Then enter the folder:

    ```
    mkdir Terraform && cd Terraform
    ```

2. Create five files to configure your infrastructure:
    - `main.tf`: will contain the main set of configurations for your project. Here, it will be our Instance
    - `provider.tf`: Terraform relies on plugins called “[providers](https://www.terraform.io/language/providers)” to interact with remote systems

>     - `backend.tf`: each Terraform configuration can specify a backend, which defines where the state file of the current infrastructure will be stored. Thanks to this file, Terraform keeps track of the managed resources. This state can be stored locally or remotely. Configuring a remote backend allows multiple people to work on the same infrastructure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `backend.tf`: each Terraform configuration can specify a backend, which defines where the state file of the current infrastructure will be stored. Terraform uses this file to keep track of the managed resources. This state can be stored locally or remotely. Configuring a remote backend allows multiple people to work on the same infrastructure
```

    - `variables.tf`: will contain the variable definitions for your project. Since all Terraform values must be defined, any variables that are not given a default value will become required arguments
    - `terraform.tfvars`: allows you to set the actual value of the variables

3. Create the following folders:
    - `function`: to store your function code
    - `files`: to temporary store your zip function code
    Your folder structure should look like:
    ```bash
    Terraform
    | -- files
    | -- function
    -- main.tf
    -- backend.tf
    -- provider.tf
    -- terraform.tfvars
    -- variables.tf
    ```

> 4. Edit the `backend.tf` file to enable distant configuration backup:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Edit the `backend.tf` file to enable remote configuration backup:
```

    ```json
        terraform {
        backend "s3" {
            bucket                      = "XXXXXXXXX"
            key                         = "terraform.tfstate"
            region                      = "fr-par"
            endpoint                    = "https://s3.fr-par.scw.cloud"
            skip_credentials_validation = true
            skip_region_validation      = true
        }
        }
        /*
        For the credentials part:

>         ==> Create a ~/.aws/credentials:

Reviewer 2: in tf doc I see there is a different path : https://registry.terraform.io/providers/scaleway/scaleway/latest/docs#shared-configuration-file 🤔

Reviewer 3: that was the code from @julesmartin76000 tutorial 🧐

Author: This defines the S3 credentials, we define the SCW credentials as variables a bit below, no need to add a Scaleway configuration file for the tutorial normally we can use 
```
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=$SCW_ACCESS_KEY
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=$SCW_SECRET_KEY
``` 
in case we don't want to use the AWS config file

        [default]
        aws_access_key_id=<SCW_ACCESS_KEY>
        aws_secret_access_key=<SCW_SECRET_KEY>
        region=fr-par
        */
    ```

5. Edit the `provider.tf` file and add Scaleway as a provider:
    ```json
    terraform {
      required_providers {
        scaleway = {
          source  = "scaleway/scaleway"
          version = "2.2.7"
        }
      }
      required_version = ">= 0.13"
    }
    ```

>   6. Specify the following variable in the `variables.tf` file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  6. Specify the following variables in the `variables.tf` file
```

    ```json
    variable "zone" {
      type = string
    }

    variable "region" {
      type = string
    }

    variable "env" {
      type = string
    }

    variable "project_id" {
      type        = string
      description = "Your project ID"
    }

    variable "auth_token" {
        type = string
        description = "Scaleway authtentication token used in the function"
    }
    ```

> 6. Add the variables value to `terraform.tfvars` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Add the variable values to `terraform.tfvars` 
```

    ```bash
    zone                           = "fr-par-1"
    region                         = "fr-par"
    env                            = "dev"
    project_id                     = "Your project ID"

>     auth_token                     = "Your Scaleway Auth Token"

Reviewer 2: Isn't it a little bit confusing in terms of vocabulary about "Auth Token" vs  "Secret Key" etc... ?

    ```

## Writing the code

For this example we will use the native python library `urllib`, which allows us to keep the package slim.

<Message type="tip">

> All information about the Instance API can be found in the [developers documentation](https://developers.scaleway.com/en/products/instance/api/#get-2c1c6f)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All information about the Instance API can be found in the [developers documentation](https://developers.scaleway.com/en/products/instance/api/#get-2c1c6f).
```

</Message>

> Enter the `function` folder and create a `handler.py` file as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Inside the `function` folder create a `handler.py` file with following contents:
```

  ```py

>   import os

Reviewer 2: formatted code : 

```python3
import os
from urllib import request, parse, error
import json

auth_token = os.environ["X-AUTH-TOKEN"]

def handle(event, context):
    ## get information from cron
    event_body = eval(event["body"])
    zone = event_body["zone"]
    server_id = event_body["server_id"]
    action = event_body["action"]  # action should be "poweron" or "poweroff"

    # create request
    url = "https://api.scaleway.com/instance/v1/zones/{zone}/servers/{server_id}/action"
    data = json.dumps({"action": action}).encode(` ascii `)
    req = request.Request(url, data=data, method="POST")
    req.add_header(` Content - Type `, ` application / json `)
    req.add_header(` X - Auth - Token `, auth_token)

    # Sending request to Instance API
    try:
        res = request.urlopen(req).read().decode()
    except error.HTTPError as e:
        res = e.read().decode()

    return {
        "body": json.loads(res),
        "statusCode": 200,
    }

```

>   ```py
>   import os
>   from urllib import request, parse, error
>   import json
> 
>   auth_token = os.environ["X-AUTH-TOKEN"]
> 
>   def handle(event, context):
>       ## get information from cron
>       event_body = eval(event["body"])
>       zone = event_body["zone"]
>       server_id = event_body["server_id"]
>       action = event_body["action"]  # action should be "poweron" or "poweroff"
> 
>       # create request
>       url = "https://api.scaleway.com/instance/v1/zones/{zone}/servers/{server_id}/action"
>       data = json.dumps({"action": action}).encode(` ascii `)
>       req = request.Request(url, data=data, method="POST")
>       req.add_header(` Content - Type `, ` application / json `)
>       req.add_header(` X - Auth - Token `, auth_token)
> 
>       # Sending request to Instance API
>       try:
>           res = request.urlopen(req).read().decode()
>       except error.HTTPError as e:
>           res = e.read().decode()
> 
>       return {
>           "body": json.loads(res),
>           "statusCode": 200,
>       }
>   ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```python3
import os
from urllib import request, parse, error
import json

auth_token = os.environ["X-AUTH-TOKEN"]

def handle(event, context):
    ## get information from cron
    event_body = eval(event["body"])
    zone = event_body["zone"]
    server_id = event_body["server_id"]
    action = event_body["action"]  # action should be "poweron" or "poweroff"

    # create request
    url = "https://api.scaleway.com/instance/v1/zones/{zone}/servers/{server_id}/action"
    data = json.dumps({"action": action}).encode(` ascii `)
    req = request.Request(url, data=data, method="POST")
    req.add_header(` Content - Type `, ` application / json `)
    req.add_header(` X - Auth - Token `, auth_token)

    # Sending request to Instance API
    try:
        res = request.urlopen(req).read().decode()
    except error.HTTPError as e:
        res = e.read().decode()

    return {
        "body": json.loads(res),
        "statusCode": 200,
    }

```
```

Reviewer 3: based on @thomas-tacquet review

        project_id = var.project_id
    }

    resource "scaleway_instance_server" "scw-instance-prod" {
      name="prod"
      project_id = var.project_id
      type  = "GP1-S"
      image = "ubuntu_focal"

      tags = ["terraform instance", "scw-instance", "production"]

      ip_id = scaleway_instance_ip.public_ip-prod.id

      root_volume {
        # The local storage of a DEV1-L Instance is 80 GB, subtract 30 GB from the additional l_ssd volume, then the root volume needs to be 50 GB.
        size_in_gb = 200
      }
    }
    ```

2. Add a development Instance using a DEV1-L named "Dev":
    ```json
    ## Configuring Development environment that will be automatically turn off on week-ends and turn on monday mornings
    resource "scaleway_instance_ip" "public_ip-dev" {
        project_id = var.project_id
    }

    resource "scaleway_instance_server" "scw-instance-dev" {
      name="dev"
      project_id = var.project_id
      type  = "DEV1-L"
      image = "ubuntu_focal"

      tags = ["terraform instance", "scw-instance", "dev"]

      ip_id = scaleway_instance_ip.public_ip-dev.id

      root_volume {
        size_in_gb = 80
      }
    }
    ```

> 3. Write a function that will run code you have just written:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Write a function that will run the code you have just written:
```

      namespace_id = scaleway_function_namespace.main.id
      name         = "instancewake"
      runtime      = "python310"
      handler      = "handler.handle"
      privacy      = "public"
      zip_file = data.archive_file.source_zip.output_path # this enable to automatically zip your code and each time you edit it
      zip_hash = filesha256(data.archive_file.source_zip.output_path)
      deploy = true
      max_scale    = "5"
      environment_variables = {
          "X-AUTH-TOKEN" = var.auth_token
      }
    }
    ```

4. Add a cronjob attached to the function to turn your function off every Friday evening:
    ```json
    # Adding a first cron to turn off the Instance every friday evening (11:30 pm)
    resource "scaleway_function_cron" "turn-off" {
        function_id = scaleway_function.main.id
        schedule = "30 23 * * 5"
        args = jsonencode({
            "zone": scaleway_instance_server.scw-instance-dev.zone,
            "server_id": regex("/([^/]+$)", scaleway_instance_server.scw-instance-dev.id)[0], # We use the dev Instance id and strip it from the region
            "action":"poweroff"
            }
        )
    }
    ```

> 5. Create a cronjob attached to the function to turn your function on every Monday mornings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Create a cronjob attached to the function to turn your function on every Monday morning:
```

    ```json
    # Adding a second cron to turn on the Instance every monday morning (7:00 am)
    resource "scaleway_function_cron" "turn-on" {
        function_id = scaleway_function.main.id
        schedule = "0 7 * * 1"
        args = jsonencode({
            "zone": scaleway_instance_server.scw-instance-dev.zone,
            "server_id": regex("/([^/]+$)", scaleway_instance_server.scw-instance-dev.id)[0],
            "action":"poweron"
            }
        )
    }
    ```

## Deploying your infrastructure

> Everything is configured now, deploy your infrastructure using Terraform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Everything is configured now, so you can deploy your infrastructure using Terraform.
```

---
meta:
  title: Deploy and manage Instances with Terraform and Functions
  description: Discover how to deploy and manage your Scaleway Instances using Terraform, functions and python
content:
  h1:  Deploy and manage Instances with Terraform and Functions
  paragraph: Discover how to deploy and manage your Scaleway Instances using Terraform, functions and python
tags: serverless functions instances python terraform
categories:
  - compute
  - serverless
---

> HashiCorp Terraform is an open-source software tool to deploy Infrastructure as Code (IaaC). It allows you to automate the lifecycle of your Instances by using declarative configuration files. In this tutorial you will discover an example of Instance automation using Python and Terraform (Automatically shut down / start Instances

Reviewer 4: (IaC)* not (IaaC)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
HashiCorp Terraform is an open-source software tool to deploy Infrastructure as Code (IaC). It allows you to automate the lifecycle of your Instances by using declarative configuration files. In this tutorial you will discover an example of Instance automation using Python and Terraform (Automatically shut down / start Instances
```
